# Project: Investigate a Dataset - [TMDb movie data]

## Introduction

### Dataset Description 

>This data set contains information about more than 10,000 movies collected from The Movie Database (TMDb), it includes the following 21 columns: 
>
- movie_id - A unique identifier for each movie.
- imdb_id - A unique identifier for each movie on IMDB.
- cast - The name of lead and supporting actors.
- director - the director of the movie
- budget - The budget in which the movie was made.
- genre - The genre of the movie, Action, Comedy ,Thriller etc.
- homepage - A link to the homepage of the movie.
- id - This is infact the movie_id as in the first dataset.
- keywords - The keywords or tags related to the movie.
- original_title - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation.
- overview - A brief description of the movie.
- popularity - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.
- production_companies - The production house of the movie.
- production_countries - The country in which it was produced.
- release_date - The date on which it was released.
- revenue - The worldwide revenue generated by the movie.
- runtime - The running time of the movie in minutes.
- tagline - Movie's tagline.
- vote_average - average ratings the movie recieved.
- budget_adj - shows the budget associated movie in terms of 2010 dollars.
- revenue_adj - shows the revenue associated movie in terms of 2010 dollars.



### Questions for Analysis
>**How Many Movies ...?**
> - Q01.............. Produced Every Year?
> - Q02.............. For Each Genre?
> - Q03.............. For Each Runtime Bin?
> - Q04.............. For Each Budget Bin (Very-Low, Low, Average, High, Very-High)?
> - Q05.............. Considered as (Super-Flop, Flop, Hit, Super-Hit)?

>**The Profitable Movies (Hit & Super-Hit Movies):** 
> - Q06. How Has The Film Industry Evolved From Year To Year In Relation To Budget, Revenue And Gross Profit?
> - Q07. What Was The Most Successful Genres, Cast, director ....?


<a id='conclusions'></a>
## Conclusions

- There's more than **10000** movies in our dataset released along **65 years**, around **75%** of it released between **1995** and **2015**.
- The top 5 genres (**Drama, Comedy, Thriller, Action, Romance**) appeared as genres for **86.89%** of the movies in our dataset.
- The duration for most of the movies in our dataset between **90 minutes** and **2 hours**, with an average of **101 minutes**.
- Film industry spending and gaining more and more every year, especially after **1995**, when budget and profit began to increase dramatically, this could relate to what we mentioned in the 1st point `(around 75% of it released between 1995 and 2015)`.
- While the film industry spending more and more every year, most of the movies in our dataset with **low and average budgets**.
- Most of the movies in our dataset considered as **hit and super-hit**.
- The average runtime for all the hit movies is **110 minutes** (almost same as average runtime for all the movies **111 minutes**) and the average production budget is around **47.5 Million** in terms of 2010 dollars.
- While increasing the production of movies will generally means more profit but clearly there's more to it than meets the eye,
	- year **2014** has the highest number of released movies
	- year **2010** has the highest budget for released movies
	- year **2011** has the highest number of hit movies
	- year **2015** has the highest profit from released movies
- **Robert De Niro, Bruce Willis, Tom Hanks and Samuel L. Jackson** stars in the highest number of movies (all movies and hit movies).
- Out of **28** movies **Steven Spielberg** directed (With Known Profit) **27** are considered as **hit**, **Clint Eastwood** did awesome job as well with **21 hit** movies out of **24**.

---

**Assumptions**

During this analysis we assumed the following budget levels
- Very-Low <= 1 Million, Low <= 25 Million, Average <= 50 Million, High <= 100 Million, Very-High > 100 Million

And the following success levels
- Super-Flop <= -50 Million, Flop < 0 dollars, Hit <= 100 Million, Super-Hit > 100 Million.

---

**Limitations**
- We made this analysis using a limited dataset, 
	- Which didn't include all the movies released in the given time period.
	- It lacks the financial data regarding the expenses like film promotion, distribution and marketing
	- And regarding the income like DVDs, home video, television broadcast rights, and merchandising
	- Around 65% of the movies in our dataset have 0 dollar for its budget and/or revenue
- We also made assumptions regarding the budgets and success levels.
- Quick search on the internet show that film industry are very secretive about their finances, some of the announced numbers are wrong, which make us question the accuracy provided data.

All this limitations affect the overall analysis, further analysis should be carried on with updated dataset.
